Add WG Notebooks (#407)
kubeflow/community: wg-notebooks/charter.md

> # WG Notebooks Charter

Reviewer: It might be better to write a README file, which indicates the Meetings / Organizers / Contacts etc.

[KF-Serving README](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/tree/daebbb8b2ca22f91f22bb2a759a0501b14aff1d8/wg-serving) should be a good example.

Reviewer 2: @PatrickXYS WG's README is generated by [generator](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/tree/master/generator).

@kimwnasptd Just need to run `make generate` under `/generator` folder and it should create all appropriate files from updated `wgs.yaml`

Author: thanks for the suggestions and instructions @PatrickXYS @andreyvelich!

This charter adheres to the conventions, roles and organization management outlined in [wg-governance].

## Scope

> WG Notebooks is responsible for the user experience around Notebooks and other IDEs and their integrations with Kubeflow.

Reviewer 3: It is confusing that WG Notebooks would be responsible for "other IDEs and their integrations" - wouldn't it make sense to name the WG something more general then? e.g. WG IDEs, WG Developers, WG Development

Reviewer 4: I think `WG Notebooks` is acceptable, the issue with `WG Developers` is that its even more likely to be confused with Kubeflow devs, whereas `WG IDE` is more correct, but less understandable.

Reviewer 5: This does seem a bit over-broad/general as a scope -- we are erring on the side of narrowly defined scopes and/or limiting to existing functionality in our working groups for now to ensure that there are very clearly defined areas of responsibility.

Reviewer 4: @theadactyl literally I cant see what else a "Notebook" working group could be responsible for.

Can you clarify what is too general?

Reviewer 6: I think @theadactyl was referring to including other IDEs in scope.

> The WG covers launching and managing different types of Notebooks on Kubeflow as well as workflows that Notebook extensions enable.

Reviewer 3: This sounds in line with the WG name, it is just the "other IDEs" that trigger my confusion

Reviewer 4: Perhaps 'web IDE's'

Author: will rename to `other web IDEs` to make a little bit more clear

### In scope

#### Code, Web apps, Controllers and Services

- APIs and tools used for launching Notebooks (e.g. Notebooks CRD/Controller).
- Web UI to manage and connect to Notebook instances (e.g. Notebook Manager UI)

> - SDKs and integrations from inside the Notebooks (e.g. Git inside Notebooks, Kale)

Reviewer 6: Kale is not currently a Kubeflow project. So I don't think it should be part of the initial work group proposal. Given Kale is at the intersection of notebooks & pipelines; potentially either this WG or the KFP WG could be the right home for Kale at some point in the future.

That said, I think the priority right now within the community should be on finding WG sponsorship for existing projects and making sure WGs are running smoothly before adopting new projects.

So I think any discussion of moving Kale into Kubeflow should be postponed for the future.

Reviewer 3: I am also missing something about maintaining the notebook images - i.e. keeping the deps up to date, making sure various kernels work in the environment etc.

Author: @jlewi ACK, I removed any Kale references

- Documentation for detailed description of using Notebooks in Kubeflow.

#### Cross-cutting and Externally Facing Processes

- Coordinating with Control Plane WG to ensure that Notebooks manifests are properly deployed with Kubeflow.
- Coordinating with Central Dashboard WG to ensure the integration with the Notebook Manager UI is up-to-date.

> - Coordinating with release teams to ensure that the Notebooks features can be released properly.

Reviewer 2: Should we also say:
Coordinating with Training and AutoML WG to ensure that corresponding SDK is properly working in Kubeflow Notebooks

Author: Added an entry for this one

> - Coordinating with release teams to ensure that the Notebooks features can be released properly.

Reviewer 6: Releases of notebooks should be the responsibility of this WG.

Author: Added both an entry for this both in the artifacts owned by the wg as well as to the external facing processes.

Reviewer 6: @kimwnasptd Maybe I'm missing the updated text can you point me at it?

I'm hung up on this line

>  Coordinating with release teams to ensure that the Notebooks features can be released properly.

I apologize for being pedantic but right now there is no clearly defined "release teams" for Kubeflow. So until such time as there is, the notebooks WG is responsible for releasing major/minor/patch releases on whatever cadence it decides for the artifacts it owns.

Author: @jlewi I was referring to these two lines:
https://github.com/kubeflow/community/pull/407/files#diff-f24ed473a8c33db922bc5532691b177bR26
https://github.com/kubeflow/community/pull/407/files#diff-f24ed473a8c33db922bc5532691b177bR18

I was under the impression that there would be a WG that would define what would go in a release, after communicating with the other WGs. Since the WG can set its own cadence then we can remove this sentence.

Reviewer 6: Those links don't seem to point to anything relevant for me.

The process for determining what should be in Kubeflow 1.X.Y is TBD. The general thinking is that KF 1.X.Y would just take the most recent stable releases of each application. So each WG would be responsible for releasing artifacts and this would then be pulled into a future release. The WG could release artifacts on its own cadence which could be more frequent or less frequent then a KF release.

Author: @jlewi thanks for clarifying.

I'm still not able to understand what information you would like to be more clear/included in the charter. Do you think there should also be an explicit entry in the `In scope` section that will be specifying that this WG will be having its own release schedule every X months for releasing the artifacts of YZW?

> - Coordinating with release teams to ensure that the Notebooks features can be released properly.

Reviewer 3: Can you give an example for " Coordinating with release teams to ensure that the Notebooks features can be released properly" ? I am not sure I can wrap my head around what does it actually mean

Author: That the WG would communicate with the release teams and ensure that the artifacts are working and can be deployed without issues.

By Notebook features I was referring to the features we would develop around the Notebooks infrastructure [ web app, images, controller ]. The syntax could indeed be more clear here. 

Following the discussion [here](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/pull/407/files#r482682164) I'll remove this entry

> ### Out of scope

Reviewer 3: Would it make sense to generalize here and say the WG is not responsible for developing and maintaining libraries allowing users to utilize other (non-)KF components? e.g. AutoML Experiments, Pipeline DSL etc.?

Author: @vpavlin yes it would make sense to generalize it here

Author: @vpavlin updated the section, PTAL

> - APIs used for running Training Jobs (Trials) (this is related to Training WG).

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should say something like this:

```suggestion
- APIs used for running Training Jobs or AutoML Experiments (this is related to Training WG and AutoML WG).
```

`Trials` is an abstraction that is related only to Katib. Right @kubeflow/wg-training-leads ?

Author: Modified accordingly, PTAL

## Scope

WG Notebooks is responsible for the user experience around Notebooks and other IDEs and their integrations with Kubeflow.
The WG covers launching and managing different types of Notebooks on Kubeflow as well as workflows that Notebook extensions enable.

### In scope

#### Code, Web apps, Controllers and Services

- APIs and tools used for launching Notebooks (e.g. Notebooks CRD/Controller).
- Web UI to manage and connect to Notebook instances (e.g. Notebook Manager UI)
- SDKs and integrations from inside the Notebooks (e.g. Git inside Notebooks)
- Documentation for detailed description of using Notebooks in Kubeflow.
- Notebook images that will be working out of the box with Kubeflow.

#### Cross-cutting and Externally Facing Processes

- Coordinating with Control Plane WG to ensure that Notebooks manifests are properly deployed with Kubeflow.
- Coordinating with Central Dashboard WG to ensure the integration with the Notebook Manager UI is up-to-date.
- Coordinating with release teams to ensure that the Notebooks features can be released properly.
- Coordinating with Training and AutoML WG to ensure that corresponding SDK is properly working in Kubeflow Notebooks

> - Ensuring that Kubeflow's Notebook images are continuously build and released.

Reviewer 6: nit "continuously built and released"
